 Grants Program | Gitcoin Search... K Toggle navigation About Campaigns Research Apps Mechanisms Case Studies Search... K Partner with us Gitcoin Grants Program Get funding & grow your ecosystem Gitcoin Grants is a seasonal initiative empowering early-stage builders through a combination of crowdfunding and grants. Explore Get Funding For early and established builders An early stage startup looking to kickstart your operation? A solopreneur with an idea? A rapidly expanding web3 community? Get the funding you need to take your project to the next level. Explore Allocate Funding For growing communities Responsible for ecosystem growth? Wanting to attract builders to your project or network? Looking to establish credibility and amass good will? Run a Community Round to support innovative projects in the ecosystem. Explore The largest and longest running web3 grants program 3,715 Projects Raised Funds 3.8M Unique Donations $50,000,000+ Towards Public Goods What Makes Us Different? Crowdfunding Meets Grants Harness the power of community with Quadratic Funding “Gitcoin grants quadratic funding is not just for funds allocation, it's also a great signaling tool! For the last few rounds, going to Gitcoin has led me to discover a lot of really cool Ethereum projects I previously did not know about.” Vitalik Buterin — Ethereum Founder Activate Your Supporters Foster connections and grow your project's reputation “The biggest thing Gitcoin did for me was give me validation.” David Hoffman — Bankless How It Works 1 Funds are pooled Gitcoin raises a pool of funds First, we raise an initial pool of matching funds with the support of the Gitcoin community. These matching funders include: individuals, organizations, repeat donors and champions of public goods. Their combined resources fund the matching pool for the round. 2 Application Period Grantees submit applications for round participation Grantees can apply to a specific round or in some cases, multiple rounds, where they meet the eligibility criteria before going through an onboarding process. 3 Review Period Gitcoin reviews applications against set of criteria Once the application period has closed, our team carefully reviews each one. If a grantee's application is accepted into a round, they will be notified and their profile will be displayed in Builder. 4 Crowdfunding Period Supporters vote and donate Then, we deploy the round so the community can decide how the matching funds are distributed to grantees through Quadratic Funding, which multiplies the funding impact to projects that receive broader support. 5 Funds are Distributed Gitcoin distributes matching funds once the grants round is complete At the end of the round, projects will receive both their donations from supporters and the allocated matching funds from Gitcoin. This tends to take a few weeks so we can check all donations for Sybil interference. Gitcoin keeps none of the funds raised — it all goes directly to the relative projects. Past Grantees Whether it's improving Ethereum, educating developers, guaranteeing onchain privacy or fighting for crypto in DC, builders use Gitcoin to connect with their community and make a lasting impact. EIP-1559 The Groundbreaking Change that Made Ethereum Ultra-Sound Money Optimism A Rapid Transformation from a Research Firm to $2B+ in Impact Tornado Cash Programming Financial Privacy Shamba Network Equipping Smallholder Farmers to Conserve Ecosystems Coin Center Defending Our Rights in Washington D.C. Austin Griffith The Quadratic Freelancer Onboarding Thousands of Developers View the history of Gitcoin Grants → Testimonials “ Gitcoin Grants is establishing itself as a significant pillar of the Ethereum ecosystem that more and more projects are relying on for some or all of their support. ” Vitalik Buterin Ethereum Founder “ One of the unlocks Gitcoin Grants provided for us was around building in public and building with the community that was ultimately be able to support us. We got deep within the [Gitcoin] community, we found friends and that slowly helped us build our reputation and get rewarded for that. ” Neeraj Agrawal Coin Center “ Quadratic funding has been such a lifeline for my project. It's been amazing. Web3 Beach was all bootstrapped. For the first year, I was just using my own funds to support the project. Then I got introduced to Gitcoin Grants and in our first round we landed around $9,000 which was huge for a project based in Latin America. ” Carlos Melgar Web3 Beach “ In a lot of cases, new ideas don't need a million dollars to get off the ground. Sometimes all you need is 5, 10, 15k to actually get something going. I see quadratic funding as a path to liberty for a lot of people who have a project that they really want to get off the ground. ” Paige D. FrontierDAO “ [Gitcoin Grants is] phenomenal not only because of the resources that are of course distributed to us, but also just the pure bottom line recognition that the things that we're doing are visible to people and they actually care about them. ” Jeremy Akers Regens Unite “ The biggest difference between Gitcoin Grants and other QF rounds is the strong sense of community. In other rounds, I have to bring my own community to vote for me. At Gitcoin around 40% of the votes were from people I didn't even know. So for me, Gitcoin Grants wasn't so much about the money as much as it was reaching more values-aligned community members. ” Devansh Mehta Voicedeck Our Matching Partners Supporters of innovation and champions of public goods. We are incredibly grateful to the funders that have collectively supported thousands of grantees from all over the world. Momus Ethereum Foundation Yearn Polygon Coinbase ENS Badger NounsDAO Momus Ethereum Foundation Yearn Polygon Coinbase ENS Badger NounsDAO Momus Ethereum Foundation Yearn Polygon Coinbase ENS Badger NounsDAO Momus Ethereum Foundation Yearn Polygon Coinbase ENS Badger NounsDAO Optimism Protocol Labs Uniswap Chainlink Balancer Aragon a16z ForceDAO Synthetix Aurora Optimism Protocol Labs Uniswap Chainlink Balancer Aragon a16z ForceDAO Synthetix Aurora Optimism Protocol Labs Uniswap Chainlink Balancer Aragon a16z ForceDAO Synthetix Aurora Optimism Protocol Labs Uniswap Chainlink Balancer Aragon a16z ForceDAO Synthetix Aurora 1inch Kraken Schmidt Futures Celo Binance Anoma Unlock Protocol Zora VitaDAO The Graph Starkware Scroll Aave Grants 1inch Kraken Schmidt Futures Celo Binance Anoma Unlock Protocol Zora VitaDAO The Graph Starkware Scroll Aave Grants 1inch Kraken Schmidt Futures Celo Binance Anoma Unlock Protocol Zora VitaDAO The Graph Starkware Scroll Aave Grants 1inch Kraken Schmidt Futures Celo Binance Anoma Unlock Protocol Zora VitaDAO The Graph Starkware Scroll Aave Grants FAQs When does it run? The Gitcoin Grants program has run quarterly since 2019. Check out grants.gitcoin.co for the latest information on active or upcoming rounds. How do I become a matching pool funder? If you're interested in helping to fund our matching pool, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us to learn more. How do I apply? You can use Grants Stack's Builder to create a single profile that you can use to apply to all the rounds for which you meet the eligibility criteria. If you're new to our Grants program, keep an eye on our Twitter and website for updates and announcements on the next grants round. If you're an existing grantee, our team will reach out to you via the email that you previously used to participate. How do I donate? Explorer allows supporters (donors) to browse through and donate to projects that have been approved in any single round. Beginning with GG18, we've shipped multi-round checkout, which will enable donors to check out projects participating in different rounds across different chains, all in the same cart. Find more details on how to donate. Why should I donate? By making an individual donation, you're supporting public goods around the world and helping secure funding for innovative projects. Contributions of 1 DAI can sometimes mean up to 400 DAI in matching. Your contributions will be met by matching funding, widening the reach of your donation. Example: If 10 people contribute 1 DAI each (= 1 USD) the Quadratic Funding matching will be higher than if only 1 person is contributing 10 DAI or 2 persons 5 DAI each. TL;DR — Your contribution is your vote, and it's way more valuable than you think. What is Quadratic Funding? In a QF round, the community contributes to the projects they feel should be funded and supported. A matching partner offers funds to match the community's contributions. Rather than a 1:1 match, the fund matching aligns with the sentiment of the community as opposed to the sheer monetary value amount raised by any grantee. The number of contributions matters more than the amount funded. This system encourages donors to donate even small amounts because their money could be matched tenfold, meaning many small donations from community members can be amplified into meaningful resources. Learn more What are public goods? In economics, a “public good” refers to anything that is both non-excludable and non-rivalrous — that is, people can't be barred access, and one person's use doesn't degrade another's. Clean air is an example of a naturally occurring public good, while the electric grid is a public good created by people. Open source code, which supports millions of companies and independent developers, is often thought of this way. Gitcoin's journey began with a focus on Digital Public Goods but has since expanded into real-life Public Goods. A great public good should: be values-based (in service of a set of values your community cares about), have longevity (be achievable and maintainable), and create positive externalities (benefits a public beyond an immediate set of users). The premier place where Ethereum funds solutions to its most important problems. We curate the funding landscape so you don't have to. Explore Campaigns Research Apps Mechanisms Case Studies Resources Brand Assets Impact Grants Program Greenpill Podcast Forum Rainbow Paper Community Contribute Guidelines Telegram Get Updates © 2026 Gitcoin. Fund what matters. Privacy Terms Contact 